Skip to content <#content>	
Password Bits <https://passwordbits.com/>

Password Bits <https://passwordbits.com/>
<#>
Menu	

  * Topics<https://passwordbits.com/category/topics/>
      o Passwords <https://passwordbits.com/category/passwords/>
      o Password Managers <https://passwordbits.com/category/password-
        managers/>
      o Master Password <https://passwordbits.com/category/master-password/>
      o 2FA <https://passwordbits.com/category/2fa/>
      o Backups <https://passwordbits.com/category/backups/>
      o Internet and Computer Security <https://passwordbits.com/
        category/internet-computer-security/>
      o Disaster Recovery <https://passwordbits.com/category/disaster-
        recovery/>
  * Tools<https://passwordbits.com/category/tools/>
      o Password Cracking Calculator <https://passwordbits.com/password-
        cracking-calculator/>
      o Passphrase Cracking Calculator <https://passwordbits.com/
        passphrase-cracking-calculator/>
      o Password Manager Emergency Sheet <https://passwordbits.com/
        password-manager-emergency-sheet/>
      o Password Generator <https://passwordbits.com/password-gen.html>
      o Username Generator <https://passwordbits.com/username-generator/>
      o Test Form Fields <https://passwordbits.com/test-form-fields/>
  * About<https://passwordbits.com/about/>
      o Privacy Policy <https://passwordbits.com/privacy-policy/>
  * <#>

<#>
Menu	

  * Topics<https://passwordbits.com/category/topics/>
      o Passwords <https://passwordbits.com/category/passwords/>
      o Password Managers <https://passwordbits.com/category/password-
        managers/>
      o Master Password <https://passwordbits.com/category/master-password/>
      o 2FA <https://passwordbits.com/category/2fa/>
      o Backups <https://passwordbits.com/category/backups/>
      o Internet and Computer Security <https://passwordbits.com/
        category/internet-computer-security/>
      o Disaster Recovery <https://passwordbits.com/category/disaster-
        recovery/>
  * Tools<https://passwordbits.com/category/tools/>
      o Password Cracking Calculator <https://passwordbits.com/password-
        cracking-calculator/>
      o Passphrase Cracking Calculator <https://passwordbits.com/
        passphrase-cracking-calculator/>
      o Password Manager Emergency Sheet <https://passwordbits.com/
        password-manager-emergency-sheet/>
      o Password Generator <https://passwordbits.com/password-gen.html>
      o Username Generator <https://passwordbits.com/username-generator/>
      o Test Form Fields <https://passwordbits.com/test-form-fields/>
  * About<https://passwordbits.com/about/>
      o Privacy Policy <https://passwordbits.com/privacy-policy/>
  * <#>


  10+ Places To Hide Your Master Password

by PasswordBits <https://passwordbits.com/author/fkbjcxouqpafqu4myr/>

If you have a password manager, you know that forgetting your master
password will lock you out forever.

This is why it’s okay to write down your master password <https://
passwordbits.com/write-passwords-down/>.

Then a new question comes up, how do you keep from losing your master
password? Here is a list of ways to store your master password so you
don’t lose it.


    Master Password Tip!

Before we get into how to hide your master password, check out how to
make a good master password here <https://passwordbits.com/make-master-
password/>.

No point in hiding your master password if it’s bad.


    1. Put It In A Safe

Write down your master password and put it in a safe <https://
www.amazon.com/s?
k=safe&crid=3P6G2FMI4JW0C&sprefix=safe%2Caps%2C96&linkCode=ll2&tag=pbippznm-20&linkId=498b44495e060a2fe0d92f2df2bf29c8&language=en_US&ref_=as_li_ss_tl> (Ad) you keep in your home.

The bigger the safe, the better.

A portable safe is not the best, but sometimes it’s your only option,
and it’s better than nothing.

You want a big safe as it’s harder to steal and will be easy to find in
case of a natural disaster. For bonus points, put the paper in a
fireproof document bag <https://www.amazon.com/s?
k=fireproof+doument+bag&sprefix=fire+proof+dou%2Caps%2C89&linkCode=ll2&tag=pbippznm-20&linkId=7c8914a543195ae6bf389136d8a7272d&language=en_US&ref_=as_li_ss_tl> (Ad) and keep that in the safe.


    2. Tape It To Something Large

Write your master password down and tape it to something large.

For example…

 1. Washing machine
 2. Back of a wall clock
 3. The underside of your computer table
 4. Under your TV
 5. Inside your entertainment center
 6. Inside your vacuum cleaner
 7. Inside your toolbox
 8. Under your bedframe
 9. Inside your dresser 

If you live by yourself or trust the people living with you, this is a
super-effective way to keep from losing your master password.

The bigger the object, the harder it is to lose. When was the last time
you lost your washing machine? Probably never, so why not tape your
master password to the side of it?

Taping your master password to something large has been a huge hit for
anyone suffering from ADHD. “It’s really hard to lose a wall <https://
youtu.be/8CvODrpfnaA?t=194>“

If you’re worried, you can put the master password in a security
envelope <https://www.amazon.com/s?
k=security+envelopes&sprefix=secuirty+e%2Caps%2C104&linkCode=ll2&tag=pbippznm-20&linkId=997520c2e65a54f7cf6fe02cffec8361&language=en_US&ref_=as_li_ss_tl> (Ad) and tape the flaps with packing tape so that the only way in is to destroy the envelope.


    3. Store It In Another Password Manager

If you have a spouse or someone else you trust 100%, store a copy of
each other’s master password in their password manager.

You don’t even need to make it obvious; give the item a different name.
Call it Home Depot if you want.

You may find yourself doing this for family and friends. We all have
that one family member who will never remember their master password, so
why not keep a copy in your password manager for them?

Many password managers even offer emergency access with a time delay.
This is great, but I would not make this the only thing you have.


    4. Hide It In A Book

It can be a cookbook all the way to that one book you’ll never finish.

It could even be a password book <https://www.amazon.com/s?
k=password+book&crid=3HZEU6H1ZMEYT&sprefix=password+book%2Caps%2C87&linkCode=ll2&tag=pbippznm-20&linkId=3776aa3b2bb3eba741451d1e4b6f8811&language=en_US&ref_=as_li_ss_tl> (Ad)!


    5. Burn It To A CD

If you have a CD or DVD collection, you can burn your master password to
a disk and hide it with your collection.

Name the CD or DVD something that is not obvious, like “’80s rock mix”.

*Or don’t burn it at all*, write the master password directly on the
disk. Seeing “*1987 Dark Veal Rust Best Of*” on a disk doesn’t stand out
but makes for a great master password. This is one of those situational
master passwords we talked about at the top.


    6. Keep A Copy In A Safe Deposit Box

Most banks will have safe deposit boxes that allow you to store valuables.

This is great for storing a copy of your master password.

It’s not perfect as you can only get the paper when the bank is open.
But it is away from your home in case of fire or other natural disasters.


    7. Hide It In Your Car

Your car is large and much harder to lose. It also has locks and often
an alarm on most modern vehicles.

You probably know your car the best and know of little hiding spots.

When you store your password, avoid writing down what it’s for or the
email address.


    8. Under Your Keyboard

This one is frowned upon, and for a good reason.

Keeping your passwords of any kind near your computer, especially at
work, is a big no-no.

But if it’s you living by yourself or with people you trust, then
keeping your master password written down under your keyboard is not
that awful of an idea.

I rather someone do this than get locked out of their vault forever
because they forgot their master password. The threat model is anyone
who can get access to the underneath of your keyboard, and for most
people, that threat is minimal.

The goal of a password manager is to keep people from reusing/bad
passwords. To achieve this goal we let the user store their master
password under their keyboard, then so be it. I rather have someone
using all random passwords for every account and keep the master
password under their keyboard than someone to reuse the same password
for everything.


    9. False Bottom Drawer

You can create a false bottom inside anything that has a drawer like a
dresser or a nightstand.

This video does a great job of showing you how to do this.


    10. Password Book

A password manager is not an all-or-nothing thing.

If you want to keep specific passwords out of it and use a password book
for the rest, you can. *Just make sure all passwords are unique and
never reused*.

It’s okay to keep a password book around and also use a password
manager. The book can be more for important passwords like your master
password.

The password manager is for everything else as it makes it easy to log
in and manage than a book full of passwords. Trust me, once you start
using a password manager, you’ll find 100’s of passwords you never
thought you had. Managing 100’s of passwords in a book is not as easy as
a password manager app.

If you need to get a password book you can find them here <https://
www.amazon.com/s?
k=password+book&crid=D1BZOEGM9LTS&sprefix=password+book%2Caps%2C91&linkCode=ll2&tag=pbippznm-20&linkId=2a5ae88e4a78a8007c7270b5acabd639&language=en_US&ref_=as_li_ss_tl> (Ad).


    11. Even More Ideas!

The internet is full of ideas of hiding things that will also work for
storing your master password.

Here are just a few videos showing you places where you can hide your
master password.

Categories Master Password <https://passwordbits.com/category/master-
password/>
Why Google Authenticator and Authy 2FA Are So Effective? <https://
passwordbits.com/why-google-authenticator-and-authy-2fa-are-so-effective/>
How To Make A Master Password For Your Password Manager <https://
passwordbits.com/make-master-password/>


    4 thoughts on “10+ Places To Hide Your Master Password”

 1.
    Atul Mandal	
    December 3, 2021 at 7:17 am <https://passwordbits.com/hide-master-
    password/#comment-4918>	

    Write the passphrase, not in sequence. Like “Banna I like most” ..
    Write each work on different paper pieces and keep them together.
    when you want to use it, you know the sequence. Write it not in
    sequence on a paper and keep it. It’s like two-level authentication.

    Reply <https://passwordbits.com/hide-master-password/?
    replytocom=4918#respond>	

      *
        Aaren	
        March 23, 2022 at 6:43 pm <https://passwordbits.com/hide-master-
        password/#comment-6842>	

        what if you forget the sequence?

        Reply <https://passwordbits.com/hide-master-password/?
        replytocom=6842#respond>	

          o
            Adrian	
            May 19, 2022 at 8:13 am <https://passwordbits.com/hide-
            master-password/#comment-7774>	

            If it’s a four word passphrase that’s 24 possible
            combinations to try. In about half an hour you have your
            passphrase back.

            Reply <https://passwordbits.com/hide-master-password/?
            replytocom=7774#respond>	

              +
                My Chemical Dying Bride	
                January 6, 2024 at 1:08 pm <https://passwordbits.com/
                hide-master-password/#comment-22691>	

                Then maybe it’s not a particularly safe way of having
                something like two-factor authentication, just saying…

                Reply <https://passwordbits.com/hide-master-password/?
                replytocom=22691#respond>	


      Leave a Comment Cancel reply <https://passwordbits.com/hide-
      master-password/#respond>

Comment

Name

Email

Website

Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I
comment.


    Tools

 1. Password Cracking Calculator <https://passwordbits.com/password-
    cracking-calculator/>
 2. Passphrase Cracking Calculator <https://passwordbits.com/passphrase-
    cracking-calculator/>
 3. Emergency Sheet <https://passwordbits.com/emergency-sheet.html>
 4. Password Generator <https://passwordbits.com/password-gen.html>
 5. Username Generator <https://passwordbits.com/username-generator/>
 6. Test Form Fields <https://passwordbits.com/test-form-fields/>

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    Topics

  * 2FA <https://passwordbits.com/category/2fa/> (9)
  * Backups <https://passwordbits.com/category/backups/> (2)
  * Disaster Recovery <https://passwordbits.com/category/disaster-
    recovery/> (3)
  * Internet and Computer Security <https://passwordbits.com/category/
    internet-computer-security/> (9)
  * Master Password <https://passwordbits.com/category/master-password/>
    (4)
  * Password Managers <https://passwordbits.com/category/password-
    managers/> (13)
  * Passwords <https://passwordbits.com/category/passwords/> (22)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

2025 © PasswordBits
As an Amazon Associate I earn from qualifying purchases.

<#>
#000000
Click to copy.
#000000
000000
(0,0,0)
PoppyHex
