Skip to content <#content>	
Password Bits <https://passwordbits.com/>

Password Bits <https://passwordbits.com/>
<#>
Menu	

  * Topics<https://passwordbits.com/category/topics/>
      o Passwords <https://passwordbits.com/category/passwords/>
      o Password Managers <https://passwordbits.com/category/password-
        managers/>
      o Master Password <https://passwordbits.com/category/master-password/>
      o 2FA <https://passwordbits.com/category/2fa/>
      o Backups <https://passwordbits.com/category/backups/>
      o Internet and Computer Security <https://passwordbits.com/
        category/internet-computer-security/>
      o Disaster Recovery <https://passwordbits.com/category/disaster-
        recovery/>
  * Tools<https://passwordbits.com/category/tools/>
      o Password Cracking Calculator <https://passwordbits.com/password-
        cracking-calculator/>
      o Passphrase Cracking Calculator <https://passwordbits.com/
        passphrase-cracking-calculator/>
      o Password Manager Emergency Sheet <https://passwordbits.com/
        password-manager-emergency-sheet/>
      o Password Generator <https://passwordbits.com/password-gen.html>
      o Username Generator <https://passwordbits.com/username-generator/>
      o Test Form Fields <https://passwordbits.com/test-form-fields/>
  * About<https://passwordbits.com/about/>
      o Privacy Policy <https://passwordbits.com/privacy-policy/>
  * <#>

<#>
Menu	

  * Topics<https://passwordbits.com/category/topics/>
      o Passwords <https://passwordbits.com/category/passwords/>
      o Password Managers <https://passwordbits.com/category/password-
        managers/>
      o Master Password <https://passwordbits.com/category/master-password/>
      o 2FA <https://passwordbits.com/category/2fa/>
      o Backups <https://passwordbits.com/category/backups/>
      o Internet and Computer Security <https://passwordbits.com/
        category/internet-computer-security/>
      o Disaster Recovery <https://passwordbits.com/category/disaster-
        recovery/>
  * Tools<https://passwordbits.com/category/tools/>
      o Password Cracking Calculator <https://passwordbits.com/password-
        cracking-calculator/>
      o Passphrase Cracking Calculator <https://passwordbits.com/
        passphrase-cracking-calculator/>
      o Password Manager Emergency Sheet <https://passwordbits.com/
        password-manager-emergency-sheet/>
      o Password Generator <https://passwordbits.com/password-gen.html>
      o Username Generator <https://passwordbits.com/username-generator/>
      o Test Form Fields <https://passwordbits.com/test-form-fields/>
  * About<https://passwordbits.com/about/>
      o Privacy Policy <https://passwordbits.com/privacy-policy/>
  * <#>


  Password Manager Emergency Sheet

by PasswordBits <https://passwordbits.com/author/fkbjcxouqpafqu4myr/>

It’s a good idea to write down your master password to your password
manager and keep it somewhere safe and secure in your home.

You should also write down your backup codes, or 2FA recovery codes as
they’re sometimes called, on the same sheet too.

Oh… and writing down your email password and computer password would be
a good idea too.

Come to think of it, having a password manager emergency sheet is what
you need. A few password managers have them, but they’re lacking and
could be better. So we created a password manager emergency sheet that
we wanted and we’re now sharing it with everyone.


    Get The Password Manager Emergency Sheet

To get the password manager emergency sheet, please click on the link
below.

Password Manager Emergency Sheet <https://passwordbits.com/emergency-
sheet.html>

Then press the “Print This Page” button to print out your own emergency
sheet.

If you don’t have a printer, you can use this design to make your own,
following the same labels we created.


    How To Fill Out The Emergency Sheet?

Please fill in your own info and not the information from the image.

*Note* – /You can fill in as much or as little as you want. Keep in mind
that this sheet may not be only for you but also for loved ones to use
if something happens to you./

*Master Password:* Every time you load the page or press the generate
new password button, a new example master password is created. You can
use it or take inspiration from it. In my picture above I took
inspiration from it, and instead of using “-” between the words, I did
the number “0”.

You don’t have to use this master password; you can use your own; make
sure it’s something you never used before and will only use for your
password manager.

*Backup Code(s):* The backup codes or recovery codes are given if you
have 2FA, or two-step login turned on.

I suggest you turn on 2FA or two-step login for your password manager
and email accounts.

Here are examples of where you can get the backup/recovery codes

  * Bitwarden – https://bitwarden.com/help/two-step-recovery-code/
    <https://bitwarden.com/help/two-step-recovery-code/>
  * Gmail – https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8xvlhbLr4cQ <https://
    www.youtube.com/watch?v=8xvlhbLr4cQ>
  * Protonmail – https://protonmail.com/support/knowledge-base/two-
    factor-authentication/ <https://protonmail.com/support/knowledge-
    base/two-factor-authentication/> 

Some password managers don’t have any backup codes and will often
disable your 2FA if you email them from the email address for your
account. This is why we have a spot on the sheet for your email password
and backup codes to keep you from having the “chicken and the egg” problem.

*Computer Password:* This is the password you use to log into your
computer. You can exclude it if you want or put in a hint. In an
emergency, being able to log into your computer is important, especially
since a lot more computers are encrypting the main drive.

*Email Password:* This is the password to the email account that you
used to sign up for your password manager.


    Where To Store This Emergency Sheet?

You should store this password manager emergency sheet somewhere safe
and secure in your home.

We have a post here that can give you some ideas. <https://
passwordbits.com/hide-master-password/>

If possible, and if you’re willing, it’s a good idea to have a second
copy outside your home but still in a safe and secure location. This
could be in a safe deposit box or sealed in a security envelope
<https://www.amazon.com/s?
k=security+envelope&crid=2A5Y610DDEUOG&sprefix=security+envelope%2Caps%2C143&linkCode=ll2&tag=pbippznm-20&linkId=7148f77362ea084190bce33bc2d334f6&language=en_US&ref_=as_li_ss_tl> (Ad) with someone you trust. You want to do this just in case of fire or other natural disasters.


    Why Have An Emergency Sheet?

Your master password is used to encrypt your data inside your password
manager.

This means that if you forget or lose your master password, you can’t
get your data. Your master password is the key, and without it, no one
can get into your vault (not even you).

You can change your master password if you know your master password,
but you can’t reset it like other accounts. This is by design because if
the password manager company could reset your master password, so could
anyone who hacks them, so it’s best they don’t know it. Since they don’t
know it, you need to take extra care not to lose your master password.

Even if you feel like you won’t forget your master password, it’s wise
to write down your master password on the emergency sheet. It may not be
you who needs it, but a loved one if you get hurt or pass away. If 2020
has taught us something, anything is possible, so it’s best to have
emergency systems in place.


    Why Did I Create This Emergency Sheet?

I created this password manager emergency sheet because I needed one
myself.

Before this, I used scrap paper and wrote down my master password but
realized that having a few more points of info was needed. If I was
having this problem, I’m sure others are too, so I made a sheet to share
with others.

Having a clean layout and something to point people to when setting up a
password manager is nice. The sheet also helps get them started and
going in the right direction, so I consider that a win.


    Why Write Down Your Email Password?

The reason I have a spot to write down the email password that you use
when signing up for your password manager is to fix the “chicken and the
egg” problem you may run into.

Some password managers don’t have backup codes, and to turn off the two-
step login, they email you to confirm you’re the correct person.

Some even will email you if you log in from a new location they don’t
recognize.

This is all fine, but how do you check your email if that password is in
your password manager that you’re now locked out of?

There is also one more reason to write down your email password and
backup codes, and that is because it’s a crude backup. If the password
manager for some reason disappears tomorrow, you’ll at least be able to
get in your email and reset passwords to your accounts to get you back
to normal. It may be a far-fetch thing to happen, but it’s better than
what most people do, which is nothing for when it comes to backups.


    Example Master Password

Every time you load the page, a new example master password is randomly
generated. You can use this master password if you want or take
inspiration from it.

I thought it was important to have this example master password because
most people don’t know what to create or even know what is “secure enough.”

Tell someone to make a strong password, and they end up freezing and
going with passwords they used before or some variation of it, which is
a very bad thing to do.

If I can give someone an example to pull from or modify, I figure it’s
the best outcome for them and points them in the right direction.

If anyone is wondering, there are 3,656,158,440,062,976 combinations you
can make from the example master password. So you having the same master
password as someone else is quite low especially if you modify it.


    *Can I Store This Sheet On My Computer? *

It’s best that you print it out and write in the information. Having
this information written down on paper you keep hidden in your home will
be the most secure way to store it.

Categories Disaster Recovery <https://passwordbits.com/category/
disaster-recovery/>
How To Make A Super Strong Password <https://passwordbits.com/how-to-
make-a-strong-password/>
The Reason Passwords Appear As Dots On Text Fields <https://
passwordbits.com/why-do-passwords-appear-as-dots/>


      Leave a Comment Cancel reply <https://passwordbits.com/password-
      manager-emergency-sheet/#respond>

Comment

Name

Email

Website

Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I
comment.


    Tools

 1. Password Cracking Calculator <https://passwordbits.com/password-
    cracking-calculator/>
 2. Passphrase Cracking Calculator <https://passwordbits.com/passphrase-
    cracking-calculator/>
 3. Emergency Sheet <https://passwordbits.com/emergency-sheet.html>
 4. Password Generator <https://passwordbits.com/password-gen.html>
 5. Username Generator <https://passwordbits.com/username-generator/>
 6. Test Form Fields <https://passwordbits.com/test-form-fields/>

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    Topics

  * 2FA <https://passwordbits.com/category/2fa/> (9)
  * Backups <https://passwordbits.com/category/backups/> (2)
  * Disaster Recovery <https://passwordbits.com/category/disaster-
    recovery/> (3)
  * Internet and Computer Security <https://passwordbits.com/category/
    internet-computer-security/> (9)
  * Master Password <https://passwordbits.com/category/master-password/>
    (4)
  * Password Managers <https://passwordbits.com/category/password-
    managers/> (13)
  * Passwords <https://passwordbits.com/category/passwords/> (22)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

2025 © PasswordBits
As an Amazon Associate I earn from qualifying purchases.

<#>
#000000
Click to copy.
#000000
000000
(0,0,0)
PoppyHex
